In the criminal justice system,
the people are represented
by two separate
yet equally important groups:
the police,
who investigate crime,
and the district attorneys,
who prosecute the offenders.
These are their stories.
( indistinct police radio
transmissions )
I want the Cadi.
I'm happy with the velour,
and not even leather.
I'm happy.
What do I end up with?
A damn Asian ant box.
( overlapping messages
over radio )
Must have forgot
their keys.
Hold it;
we got a vic.
( siren wailing )
( tires screeching )
PARTNER:
Hey, watch it, Eddie--
he's got a gun!
( sirens wailing in distance )
Hey, Eddie,
forget the kid!
This guy's
checking out!
Since when's a ham
sandwich $2.75, Jesus?
Since last Friday.
I didn't know
ptomaine had gone up.
We don't use none of that.
It's all homemade.
( horn honking )
What?!
We got a 10-20;
could be a homicide.
Vic conscious?
Nope. Ambulance
is on the way.
Around the potholes, huh?
The suit's just back
from the cleaners.
Odds?
EMT:
50-50, but I'm an optimist.
I've seen this guy.
Hochmeyer. Come here.
Any I.D.?
They took his wallet,
but we ran the car.
Hey, who owns the Benz?
Eddie, come on.
It's registered to
Charles Halsey in Kew Gardens.
Oh, that's great,
that's just terrific.
You know the guy?
Councilman Halsey?
Ring a bell?
Dirtbag was always
mouthing off
about the streets
being unsafe?
I hate media cases.
Captioning sponsored by
NBC/UNIVERSAL
Ooh, they try
to get close to you,
looking for anything that they
can get 500 words out of you.
99% of them don't care about
you, the case, or who they hurt.
They just want
to sell papers.
And if you talk to them,
they start calling
you at the office,
tying up the lines.
If you don't
talk to them,
they starting writing about
how the police are stymied.
Then, phone calls come in
from the brass downtown.
You can't smoke that
in here.
It's not lit.
Not bad, Max.
A prophet
in your own time.
...was big news to you people.
Then, you all just got tired
of hearing the truth.
Oh, sure, you were all there
at his press conferences,
but he was just exercising
his lungs.
( camera clicking )
Now do you understand
what Chuck Halsey
was screaming about?
Our streets aren't safe
for anyone.
You can check with our
office on Chuck's condition.
We'll have regular
medical updates.
Thank you, ladies
and gentlemen.
( reporters clamoring )
REPORTER:
Do you have any idea
what your husband was doing
in that neighborhood
late at night?
Excuse me.
DOCTOR:
Go home and get some sleep.
He made it through the surgery,
and that's half the battle.
We'll call you immediately
if anything changes.
Thank you, Doctor.
Who are you?
I'm Detective Logan,
this is Detective Greevey.
I'm sorry
about your husband, ma'am.
You're the investigating
officers?
LOGAN:
Yeah.
We heard
it was two black kids.
You have anything else?
Not yet.
Could you give me
a description of his
personal items, ma'am?
He always carried a, uh,
a brown alligator wallet,
and, um, he had a
star sapphire ring
and a gold
and diamond Rolex,
and he always had
about $500 cash.
Your husband
have any enemies?
CONTI:
Chuck Halsey is one
of the most respected
and liked men
in this district.
I'm sure he is. Ma'am?
What are you asking me?
I thought you knew
who did it.
LOGAN:
No, we knew
two black kids were there.
They didn't drive him
to that location.
Do you have any idea
what he was doing
way out there?
Chuck had
a political dinner.
I was there;
it ended around 10:30.
LOGAN:
Did he leave alone?
I have no idea.
Are you going to be able
to catch these... kids?
I'm not going
to lie to you.
It will take a break
or a miracle.
What kind
of miracle?
One of them walking in
and confessing might help.
We have to get back
to the precinct garage.
We'll try to get your car
back to you
as soon as possible, ma'am.
Thank you,
Detective.
It's okay, it's okay.
That was smart.
Hey, there's no sense in
her having any illusions.
Oh, right.
Conti got a real charge
out of your sense of humor.
Yeah?
Are you trying to tell me
this thing plays straight?
Let's check Halsey's car.
What was he doing there
after a political dinner?
Let's check the car.
Oh, well,
wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
What do you got?
Old rumors.
That's great;
what kind?
Rumor was that he ran the
pad in the criminal courts.
He's a bagman?
Was...
if you believe
the rumors.
This really frosts
my cookies, Max.
You mind telling me
why you didn't tell me?
Because you're already
leaping to conclusions
for Pete's sakes.
About the only probable
conclusion that we can draw
is that the black kids
took whatever they found.
Let's check the car.
60 bucks for a damn key.
I could have popped
the thing for nothing.
Car belongs
to a councilman.
Is that real?
How much?
12 and up.
Must be crazy
about his old lady.
GREEVEY:
I don't want to tell her,
but what else
can we do?
But Halsey could still
pull through, right?
Eight to five, against.
Surgeon says
it's in God's hands.
Well, that must
be comforting.
Well?
The guy wakes up, and the coat
wasn't for the wife
and we've told her...
Thanks for your help,
Captain.
Keep in touch.
Since when does that mean
we don't go?
Hey, Max.
Yeah.
Jacobson down at the trib.
I'm out.
No labels.
Maggie's got
a friend.
Works for a furrier.
MAN:
You catch
the Halsey mugging?
Yeah.
Give Perez a call
in Narco.
Perez?
He's the one doesn't shave?
Yeah.
We take down the crack house
and roll up
this scum ball dealer Rodriguez,
along with
the half a dozen customers.
Rodriguez is on probation
and knows he's going back
for a deuce,
so he gives us this kid
who he says came in with a wad
that he had taken off
some white dude in a Mercedes.
When I got in here,
I read the APB,
and, boom, called upstairs.
LOGAN:
Monster case of the yips?
GREEVEY:
He's good for nothing
till he comes down.
LOGAN:
Nah, I'm going to have him
singing the name game
in five minutes.
What, $20?
Rodriguez would rat out
his own mama.
Don't know nothing!
And you ain't got squat on me,
except for what he said,
and that's just heresy.
The word's hearsay, Simonize.
Yeah, that's it,
and I be good
for no say.
Hey, shut up.
We don't dig being dissed
by lightweights.
Mike, Mike,
he's not being disrespectful;
he's just being reflective.
What are you
looking at?
Turn around.
Eight arrests
and he still doesn't get it?
Hey, judges help those
who help themselves.
Going...
Now, I'm not talking
about a year in Spofford.
Going...
Don't be stupid!
Gone.
Back to your
cage, Simonize.
Get up.
Simonize.
What a surprise.
You getting some career
counseling from Greevey?
I ain't
done nothing!
Such a polite young man.
Well, of course, you haven't.
We always go out
and arrest innocent people.
Who does this jerk
hang with?
How's Tremaine
these days?
Ain't seen him.
It's amazing how you homeboys
are always apart.
Tremaine Lewis.
I got his address upstairs.
Simonize lives
with his grandmother.
( chuckles )
Grandmother?!
( laughter in distance )
You the man?
We sure are, honey.
( pounding on door )
WOMAN:
Who is it?
GREEVEY:
Police, Mrs. Jackson.
You sure this paper
says you can do that
even when he ain't here?
Yes, ma'am.
That's a search warrant,
signed by a judge.
First time
the police
ever brought
a search warrant.
Simon done something real bad
this time, huh?
Yes, ma'am.
Looks that way.
Lots of noise.
Plenty of warning.
GREEVEY:
Tremaine Lewis! NYPD.
Drop the gun, Tremaine!
Give it up!
GREEVEY:
Look at me when I'm talking
to you!
And if the
councilman croaks,
you guys move up to
the bigs, murder two.
We're telling you
the truth, man.
We didn't do nothing
to him.
You guys willing
to swear
you two were together
the whole night?
You got that right.
Hmm?
You know what we found
in Simonize's apartment?
I ain't never seen that.
Simonize, you holding out
on your main man?
That is the vic's watch.
Anybody want to make a deal?
( door opens )
You didn't plea these guys,
did you?
We're still talking.
Stop.
Councilman?
Now, wait a damn minute...
He's saying
the dude croaked?
I'm saying you blew it.
Look, he was already cut
when we got there.
We took them off,
but we didn't do nothing to him.
He's telling the truth.
He was just lying
there bleeding.
It was that white cat
in the Benz.
He got out as soon as
the truck pulled off.
What truck?
I've been thinking
about yesterday.
That was great.
I thought Halsey
had croaked.
Tony Halliwell?
Yeah?
I'm Detective Greevey,
this is Detective Logan.
Is there a problem?
Dispatcher said you made a late
delivery on Tuesday night.
Uh-huh.
Anybody else here
when you arrived?
Just the night man;
he was inside.
And outside?
Yeah, there were a couple
of cars parked right there:
a gray Mercedes
and a red Jag XJ-S.
Hey, that's very observant,
Tony.
Yeah, I like cars.
You see anything else?
Yeah, when I drove in,
there were two guys
at the rear of the jag.
Trunk pops open,
guy reaches in pulls
out a fur coat
and hands it
to the other guy.
Could you identify them?
Yeah, sure.
Then what happened?
The other guy opens up
the trunk of the Mercedes
puts it in there.
They both climb into the
Mercedes, and I go inside.
Thanks.
You've been very helpful.
Sure.
I didn't know you hung
with the carriage trade.
Hello to you, too.
Max.
Maggie.
Second floor.
Talk to her boss.
She thinks
he'll know who made it.
So is this good
for a dinner?
Well, that depends on
what dinner's good for.
Oh. Well, let's put it
this way:
you don't have a chance in hell
without it.
Very cold, Maggie.
So light my fire.
MAN:
And then, among lynx,
there are as many variations
as there are among people.
So is this coat Meryl Streep
or Whoopi Goldberg?
More the latter
than the former, I'm afraid.
Canadian farm grown, male pelts,
basic coat, not a designer's.
Flash but basically trash.
You mind if we cut
to the chase, Mr. Farber?
Oh. There are
about three furriers
who do these type
of garbage goods,
but your best bet
is Kornbluth on 22nd.
MAN:
They're Russians, you cretin.
Don't give them a dime
until you have the pelts.
What?
You Kornbluth?
There hasn't been a Kornbluth
here since 1957.
I'm Swersky.
What do you want?
Where's the owner?
What is this,
20 questions?
I'm Detective Logan,
and this is Detective Greevey.
Now, is this your coat?
Possible.
I mean, it looks
like one of mine,
but I don't know
every coat.
Now you're starting
to tick me off, Mr. Swersky.
Why is it I think
that Mr. Swersky
recognized that coat the minute
it walked in the door?
You want to tell me
what you want.
No.
Who bought the coat?
It was a gift.
What kind of car
do you drive?
A Cadillac
Coupe de Ville.
Why?
Who was the gift for?
You know, I really think maybe
I should give
my attorney a call, huh?
Absolutely.
Feel free.
Maybe I should give Gaffner
a call down at the firehouse.
Now, aren't some of those pelts
covering
fire sprinklers?
And call Ulasewicz over at
the buildings department.
I saw a lot
of violations.
Tony Scalisi.
Where do I know that name?
Masucci family.
God, he finds out
I told you...
Why did he want the coat?
What am I, Karnak?
Trucker give you
a positive I.D.?
Right from the picture.
So did Lewis
and Jackson.
Read the rap sheet.
Mr. Scalisi likes
to slice and dice.
And guess who leases
a red Jaguar XJ-S?
Halsey regain consciousness?
GREEVEY:
Doctors aren't very optimistic.
Captain, why don't we  wait
to see if Halsey buys the farm.
Murder's a better collar.
I'm getting
my butt barbecued.
Borough president
called for a task force.
He wants to take it
away from us.
Deputy Commander Jefferson
calls twice a day.
What's he want?
Doesn't want me
to forget
that this is
a politically sensitive case.
I don't want to wait.
Get a warrant.
Go on.
Yes, sir.
Which night school
Clarence Darrow
is handling this?
Name's Robinette.
$20 says he won't file.
These defensive bets
are going to kill you.
( overlapping conversing )
MAN:
And then, what happened?
And after that,
he picks up the baby,
and he starts shaking her.
And her head
just starts flopping...
Thank you.
Is that when
you called 911?
MAN:
Well, if it was self-defense
how come you shot him
in the back?
Robinette?
Uh, Logan.
Greevey, he's Logan.
Stone's willing to file,
but it's a reach.
I've sent a lot
of guys away
on circumstantial
evidence.
Anyway, I think this
is more than that.
What kind of more?
You know that Halsey
was a bagman?
Stone mentioned that.
Then mention to
Stone that Deputy
Commander Jefferson
has been nosing around.
Tell him I thought
he'd like to know.
You're new, aren't you?
How long you been
with Stone?
Eight months.
Must be a record.
See you in court.
Must be out.
No answer.
You guys
just got lucky.
Here he comes.
I hate pit bulls.
If he drops the leash,
shoot the dog first.
Go over there.
Anthony Scalisi, I have
a warrant for your arrest.
Don't move.
( dog growling )
What's the charge?
Assault with a deadly weapon
and the attempted murder
of Charles Halsey.
Spuds moves, you're history.
MAN:
Criminal possession of a weapon
in the third degree,
criminal possession of a weapon
in the second degree,
assault in the second degree,
assault in the first degree
attempted murder
in the second degree.
Counselor, waive reading
of the rights and charges?
So waived.
And how does
your client plead?
Not guilty.
JUDGE:
People on bail?
Your Honor, the defendant
has been convicted
of murder once before.
He is a repeat offender.
He's a soldier
in the Masucci family
and is considered a flight risk.
This office requests
that he be held without bail.
I'm afraid I am loathe
to withhold bail
on all except homicide cases,
Counselor.
$100,000...
cash or bond.
Short date.
Thought Stone would be here.
At a button man's
arraignment?
Have no fear, Eddie.
Stone's looking forward
to seeing you in court.
What's
his schedule like?
Depends on who's coming
to call.
Come on, Paul,
this whole thing
is just one step
above a roust.
It's a two-minute
negotiation.
I wouldn't count on it.
Halsey's still
touch and go.
Nobody dies
of a knife wound
a week later.
Predicate violence?
Stone hates pleading
on predicate violence.
( knocking )
( whispering: )
Cosmatos.
Call me irresponsible,
Eddie, but I like you.
You're a hell
of a lawyer.
That's why I'm always amazed
at how incredibly guilty
your clients are.
Scalisi's lower
than snake spit.
Well, you want to waste
more of your client's money,
come on down Thursday.
I'm Eddie Cosmatos.
I can't wait to put this
in front of a jury.
Two black kids are found
with the victim's possessions.
The other eyewitness
puts Scalisi there,
but they only time they saw him
was when he was with Halsey,
he was perfectly fine,
so why does Eddie want to plea
his client?
Judicial calendar
doesn't publish until next week.
Scalisi draws Robards
or Kapstein...
He gets 15 to life.
He draws Rosen or Gonzales,
he gets an apology.
So what do 99 defense lawyers
out of 100 do?
Wait for the calendar
to come out.
And you only make five percent
of what Eddie makes.
What did Greevey mean about
Deputy Commander Jefferson?
Jefferson and I don't dance.
The guy's a hero.
He's a lying,
two-faced bastard.
Wait a minute, I grew up
around the corner from him.
He coached
my little league team.
I wouldn't even be a lawyer
if it wasn't for him.
I'm sure his dog
loves him, too.
You know how many black kids
look up to him.
He's one of the highest
ranking black cops ever.
If he's wrong, he's wrong.
If he's so wrong,
how come nobody knows it?
I know it.
Come on,
let's beat the traffic.
STONE:
I used to hear things
about Halsey along time ago,
but he's had a good reputation
the last ten years.
Funny thing about reputations...
Now, don't start
on that, Paul.
I just think...
You're not thinking.
If Jefferson was white,
you wouldn't doubt
a word I'm saying.
Only reason he's still got
a badge is because he's black.
Really? Why don't you just
tell me what the hell he did?
He perjured himself
as a captain,
changed his
testimony on me.
Somebody bought him,
that's one.
Another time, he doctored
evidence in a numbers case.
I'm not going to do this, Paul.
You're either on my team
or Jefferson's.
... and since he never
discussed business with me,
I had no idea he was involved
in illegal activities.
We just had dinner
with Deputy Police
Commander Jefferson
and his wife,
for God's sake.
Mom?
I'm going to head on
over to Gran's.
She's still a little shaky.
I'll be back in an hour.
Okay, sweetie.
Kenneth was going to Annapolis,
but with what's
going to come out,
he'll never be able to get
a congressional appointment.
Mr. Halsey
never wanted Mrs. Halsey
to be burdened with unnecessary
business details.
Is there anything else
you'd like to know?
Her coat size.
12... I wear a 12.
Thank you, Mrs. Halsey--
one more thing.
Did you ever hear of somebody
called Anthony Scalisi?
No, I don't recall that name.
Why?
He was a man we suspect
attacked your husband.
A black boy named Scalisi?
Two blacks in custody confessed
to robbing your husband
but Scalisi was the one
who slashed him.
Do you have any idea
why somebody might want
to attack Mr. Halsey?
Mrs. Halsey already told you
she didn't know Tony Scalisi,
all right?
Mr. Wentzel.
We won't take up any more
of Mrs. Halsey's time,
but why don't you let us
buy you a cup
of coffee?
STONE:
Mrs. Halsey
wears a 12.
The coat is an eight.
Who is she,
Mr. Wentzel?
You can't be serious.
I can't tell...
You're gonna make
me very angry if you
finish that sentence.
Hey, what is this?
We're talking privacy here.
No, we're talking
obstruction here.
That's what
we're talking.
Now, wait
just a damn second...
No, you wait--
this case stinks.
Your friend was a bagman
long before he
was a councilman,
and old habits die hard.
Now, I'm going to start
sending out subpoenas.
I find out that you
had any knowledge
of person or persons
who were involved
with your friend
in illegal activity,
I'll have your butt.
Now, what's her
name, Mr. Wentzel?
Alicia Heslin?
Um... she's in sweaters.
Miss Heslin?
Yes?
My name's Paul Robinette.
I'm from the district
attorney's office.
Yes?
I'd like to ask you
a few questions.
About what?
Charles Halsey.
I've been expecting you.
STONE:
I like the story you wrote
on Congressman Macgruder.
So, what do you want?
Everything you got
on Charles Halsey.
How much do you know
about parking meters?
They all run fast.
And a lot of people who get
tickets don't pay them.
Collecting all that money
for all those unpaid tickets
is a very big headache
for the head of the parking
violations bureau.
He has to get
a little outside help.
That means a big contract.
Ah.
Very big,
very lucrative contract.
Who has it?
Interesting little company
called Carnegie Collections.
She's got champagne tastes--
Cartier watch, alligator shoes.
When she first heard about it,
she thought he might have been
trying to commit suicide.
Why? Was he depressed?
He'd been subpoenaed--
federal grand jury
on municipal corruption.
Oh, and how's this grab you.
Her apartment lease is made out
to Carnegie Collections.
She wear a size eight coat?
Right off the rack.
He tell her names?
Last month,
it was all he talked about.
Told her who had done what to
whom and how they had done it.
Will she testify?
Most of it's
unusable anyway.
"Chuck told me that Scalisi told
him that Van Damme told him,"
that kind of thing.
She did say he couldn't figure
out how this was happening,
since he had a deputy
police commander in his pocket.
JEFFERSON:
I can tell you now
that six days
of jury deliberation
did have me worried.
REPORTER:
Well, you must be very pleased
with the verdict,
Deputy Commander.
I am, Chuck, I truly am.
Our high schools
must be protected
from the drug-dealing scum
trying to poison our children.
Mr. Jefferson.
Deputy Commander,
can I ask you this?
Do you feel that the
impact of this verdict
will be felt
on the streets
of New York?
How deep does this go?
It's not confined to
the parking violations bureau,
that's for sure.
Why not?
Halsey's been the bagman
for 20 years
Scalisi's mobbed up,
and according to
a reporter I know,
several other councilmen
and politicians
are stockholders
in Carnegie Collection,
as well as the deputy
police commander,
one William Jefferson.
Jefferson?
Is this personal?
Is that why you
want to bring the feds in?
I'd love
to nail the bastard,
but with him involved,
we get one surveillance
leak, we're dead.
We're secure with
the bureau doing it.
Let the feds have the ink
on municipal corruption.
They may even help me
get a conspiracy to
murder on these bozos.
( sighs )
You never know whose pants
are going to get dropped
in a corruption scandal.
Hey, this started out
as a mugging.
I'll back you.
But don't bring me any names
unless they're dead-bang guilty.
I want a smoking gun
I want it in somebody's hand.
Are you telling
me tape?
Tape would be a start.
Can I offer
Scalisi immunity?
Nope. It would look like he's
naming people to save himself.
I wouldn't want you to go out
on a limb here, Alfred.
That's not what I get
the big bucks for.
( buzzer sounding )
Yes?
WOMAN:
Mr. Stone has an urgent call.
A lawyer named Cosmatos.
Somebody wants to make a deal.
Cosmatos and Scalisi
are in your office.
Call Judge Ichaso.
Get warrants
for Halsey, Scalisi,
Jefferson's phone records,
and talk to Halsey's doctor.
See when we can
interrogate him.
COSMATOS:
So we steadfastly maintain
that the slashing was done
by the black youths
seen fleeing the scene.
We all know you never know
what will happen with a jury,
so we would be willing
to negotiate
some sort of an agreement.
Don't do me any favors.
I'm more than willing
to let the people decide.
Bottom line: what do you want?
Who paid you to do Halsey?
Look, you want
to talk city corruption?
No deal without the names.
Pass.
STONE:
What's up?
Hospital just called.
Charles Halsey
died half an hour ago.
We'll get back to you.
I haven't even made
an offer.
Trust me, you wouldn't like
the counter.
I can tell
you things.
You going to tell me
about parking tickets?
Yours is already punched.
We know all about
Carnegie Collections.
I got a lot of names.
I'll see you in court.
I'm not talking
G-4s here.
These are your basic
elected officials
and a deputy
police commander.
Don't have him
make me call security.
Come on, Tony.
There is no way
that I am going down
alone behind this.
Now, what do you want?
Want? I want it all.
You testify--
give names, dates, amounts.
You flush all those
true-blue public officials.
And that gets me a walk?
The only way you walk is you say
who gave the order.
You know
I can't do that.
No Masucci, no free lunch.
But the public officials
could lead to a plea
of let's say... assault?
Let's say
voluntary manslaughter.
Let's say involuntary.
Then he wears a wire.
SCALISI:
What, are you crazy?
They know I've been popped;
they'll smell it.
You let me worry about that.
What kind
of sentencing recommendation?
Depends on what's on the tape.
Tick-tock, gentlemen.
Write it up.
The guy had arteries
the diameter of capillaries.
So with the traumatic
loss of six units of blood
there was a
causative connection
between the assault
and the coronary?
Oh, come on, guys,
you don't want to ask me that--
"causative connection"?
Whoa, whoa, whoa,
wait a minute.
Mr. Halsey
had a regular physician,
didn't he, Dr. Goldberg?
Yes, he did.
And he described Halsey as being
in good health.
Uh-huh.
He was alive a week ago,
correct?
Far as I could tell.
And then, somebody
cut his throat
with a straight razor,
severing an artery
in his vocal cords.
As well as other
connective tissue.
And now,
Mr. Halsey is dead?
Yes, that's correct.
Thank you, Dr. Goldberg.
It's neat, it's clean, it's
inter-agency cooperation.
and we may get a murder-
for-hire conspiracy.
while you get another
nail for your RICO...
How did I get so lucky?
A high-level cop is involved.
I can't this
through the P.D.
The D.A. know about this?
It has his
full approval.
We go to trial first.
You want to win your RICO?
You go in with
one of the five counts
having already been proven
in state court.
What do you need?
An FBI surveillance team.
Get me Jackson at the bureau.
All right,
let me see if I've got this.
Halsey's been called
before the grand jury.
Big names figure
he's going to name them,
give the contract
to Scalisi.
But Scalisi screwed up.
The black kids come along.
We got lucky; they
came up with I.D.
So why are you kicking?
I told you,
it's a weak case.
It's all circumstantial,
and no choirboys
as witnesses for
the prosecution.
Spare me the waltz,
all right?
This is all off the record
until after an indictment.
But I get an exclusive
on the arrest.
I can't promise
you that.
Sure you can.
You get an exclusive
on the highest-ranking
defendant's arrest site.
Will you run it?
"Assistant District Attorney
Benjamin Stone stated
"that his office did not feel
that Scalisi's causative role
"in Halsey's death
could be proven
beyond a reasonable doubt."
a tad doctrinaire,
but not too bad.
Scalisi comes out
smelling like a rose.
So long as they buy
he held his mud.
Jefferson called me
for a status report.
You told him about
this case?
I had to--
he would have been suspicious
if I didn't talk to him.
I gave him the "we had
to let Scalisi walk" rap.
How did he take it?
He was absolutely furious.
I'm sure it was an
Oscar performance.
You're certain
he's guilty, right?
I'm not certain,
I'm positive!
Now, you take her
through her testimony?
She's still upset
about not having
a lawyer with her.
Did you explain to her
how the grand jury works?
No lawyer unless
you're a defendant
and we need her testimony
to get a wiretap?
She understands.
She's not happy about
it, but she gets it.
All right.
STONE:
And did Charles Halsey
tell you of other officials
who were involved in
this conspiracy to award
the traffic violation bureau's
collection contract
to Carnegie Collections?
HESLIN:
Well, he mentioned people
that I knew
as well as people
that I had never heard of.
Which people
that you knew personally?
Anthony Scalisi
and William Jefferson.
And did he tell you
the amount of money involved?
He said
that there was over $1 million
available
to pay off city officials
per year.
( elevator bell dings )
See who your
client drew?
No, I haven't seen
the calendar.
"Let 'Em Walk" Falk.
Hey, I didn't want him to plead;
it was his own decision.
Anyway,
he got the call.
From who?
Scalisi wants it
to be a surprise.
This isn't a
parlor game, Eddie.
He's worried somebody
might not show up,
and you'll think
he's lying.
Where's the meet?
Cafe Bruxelles.
When?
Tomorrow night, 8:00.
Bring him to the bureau
at 6:00.
You know who's coming?
Mm-hmm.
Bad?
I hope you don't have
any political aspirations.
Just make sure
he's on time.
I'll start with you
taking them through the arrest
of Lewis and Jackson.
Let Max do Scalisi.
How did you let
those kids plead?
Possession of stolen
property, six months.
You going to be able
to nail Jefferson
for anything worse?
STONE:
Looks like it.
What goes around
comes around.
If these guys smell
anything hinky, they're
going to clam up.
So just be cool--
you beat the system.
You told the cops
to shine it on.
McCORMACK:
Maybe you want to tell us
who's coming to this party now?
Hey, didn't anybody
tell him the deal?
Whoever comes, comes.
These guys are going
to hang themselves.
I ain't ratting on them.
But I'll tell you who
ain't coming: Masucci.
There is no way
I give up my boss.
Hold your water, Tony.
We wouldn't want you
to short yourself out.
Just make sure one
of the principals
implicates himself.
Right, right, right.
STONE:
We've gone through
their phone records.
Halsey's talking to Scalisi and
Jefferson 10-15 times a week.
Conti even called Jefferson
when he was on a police junket
to Tokyo.
McCORMACK:
Whoa, whoa.
Scalisi and Halsey
I understand,
but why Jefferson?
He's a deputy commander
and police handle traffic,
which includes parking.
ROBINETTE:
Look at that.
Do you believe these guys?
McCORMACK:
Damn! Limo's got a New York City
shield on the bumper.
STONE:
Bingo.
McCORMACK:
Who is it?
STONE:
Borough President Conti's
in front,
that guy in the middle
is Jefferson,
and the one in the blazer
is Councilman Van Damme.
( whistling )
Ain't politics great?
CONTI ( over speaker ):
I was worried
it would come up
at the mayor's press
conference last week.
JEFFERSON:
The commissioner was
asking about it every day.
This has been
a rough few weeks
on all of us,
and the...
The DA's decision
is extremely gratifying.
I'd like to propose
a toast.
To Tony Scalisi.
JEFFERSON:
Here, here.
CONTI:
Who knows how to be
a stand-up guy.
That's about as damning
as a rotary club meeting.
Shh, shh.
Tony... we don't
want you to think
that we're not very grateful
for everything you've done.
SCALISI:
Hey, what are friends for?
VAN DAMME:
Maybe we should get you
to take care of that worm Lasco,
too, huh, Tony.
Yeah, half the politicians.
AGENT:
God almighty...
AGENT 2:
What's the problem?
It's Greco.
Who is he?
McCORMACK:
One of Masucci's mechanics.
He usually eats in the bar.
What do you want to do?
STONE:
Let it play.
VAN DAMME:
...have to send you right
to the hospital to do some...
"additional surgery."
I thought the jerk
was never going to croak.
( laughter )
JEFFERSON:
These things take time.
VAN DAMME:
Tony, you know if there's
ever anything you need
from us...
Come on.
He's probably just going in
for dinner...
Wait, he's going
to incriminate himself.
I want you
to have this.
VAN DAMME:
It's nice to know we're all
in the same boat together.
So who contributed?
You really want to know?
Absolutely.
Me, Jefferson,
Van Damme.
That's it--
we got it.
Tell the agents
in the restaurant.
They're not
wearing radios.
What?!
You can't hide the wires.
This guy's not going
to the bar.
Oh, my God!
( car horn honking )
( gunshot )
( screaming )
Freeze, Greco!
( gunfire )
Don't say anything.
Not a word!
Wait for your lawyer.
STONE:
Ladies and gentlemen
of the jury,
in the coming weeks,
you will hear
how an investigation
of what seemed to be
a common mugging
uncovered a conspiracy
at the highest levels
of city government--
a conspiracy that led
to three violent deaths.
You will learn how these men
driven by
the basest kind of greed
violated their public trust
and conspired
with a member of organized crime
to murder
another public official.
I ask you
to weigh all the evidence
that is presented.
It is my responsibility
to show you their crimes.
It is your responsibility...
...to see
that justice is done.